# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

By keeping the code up to industry best standards, will help keep the code maintainable and reusable by keeping the code current and up to date. Keeping to industry best standards will help anyone who is new to the project to be able to have that readability in code and they can understand what is trying to be done or passed through. With the CRUD method the code can be easily readable and adaptable as we created the CRUD methods early on in the course but was able to use it continuously throughout the course to assist in completing the final project. This CRUD python module can be used with just about anything going forward, and can just update variables on the fly to get what the programmer is trying to do.

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist I would first want any and all documentation and what the desired result that the customer has for the project. Determine what tools would be needed to complete the project, as this was my first course that involves “Full Stack” programming and I would approach the problem as I did in this course. That being start on the database server side and use mongoimport to import a “CSV” file or a “Json” file. This is and was completely different from other courses where you would code at a certain point in a given code sample to complete the project, with this project in this course I started from the server side, created the “Glue” which is the CRUD Python and along with creating the main file of the main IPYNB python file in which I was able to create a hyper link when clicking on the company logo, a data table, pie chart, and a geolocation map for the animals in question for all to be displayed on the front end which is the interactive website for any user that is interacting with the website. 

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists have a range of jobs that can be done such as research and engineering and to develop real time solutions to give customers/users what they ask for. It matters because it is the driving force of todays industries and end users, everything in todays society involves some type of computer science whether its a hand held device, a vehicle, debit/credit machines, and the list goes on and on. The work I completed for this current project was a breat experience and I have gained a lot more confidence in my abilty in programming, With the work I completed in this project, this will help end users get the accurate information needed when searching for a certain rescue dog, and for perticular rescue situation. With the filter options within the radio buttons it will help the end user select the correct information needed for that type of rescue. The end users will not have to worry about searching through thousands of options for animals, with the CRUD operations being used it will ensure the end user will get the results they are looking for.   
